Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn the if else statement in C.
So this is the syntax for
if else statement.
And when the given condition is true, the statements under
if executes and otherwise the statements under else will be
executed.
And if we have two cases that you can have
in our programme and if you want to take a
particular action in either case then you can use if
else statement. Now see a real time example here.
we have the traffic signals and the code is if
(red) stop else move So we have the two cases case 1
is that the signal is red.  case2 is that
the signal is not red.
If the light is red you want to stop. Otherwise
that is, if it is not red, you can move.
Now see an example programme and this programme checks if the input
given is zero or non zero
So in the main function, we're declaring an integer variable
num and we are asking the user to enter
any number and suppose the user enters 10 and
it is read to num
And now we have the the if else statement if num == 0
So the condition is that the entered number equal to
zero and here num equal to 10 which is not
equal to zero
So the condition is failed and if part will not
work and else part will work and it will print
"Non zero". Now see another case were the user enters
zero
Now the condition num=0, has become true
So the statements under if will be executed and "Zero"
will be printed and the programme is completed
And that is how if else statement works
So that's all and thank you for watching this video